1. Controls: Your ball must be able to roll, jump and stop. The default button mappings must be keyboard only for movement. WASD and Arrow keys should move the player in the standard directions up, left, down, and right. The space bar must map to jumping. Use Q and E for any rotations if you desire. 0 is the stop ball, 5 starts the game, and 6 stops the game. If you have a sneak feature, use the left to shift for the mapping. Commas and periods should be additional triggers if you need them. You may have additional input devices such as controllers, gamepads, etc., but the keyboard must work. You may also use your mouse to do inputs for selection or as a challenge moving the camera. Document all mappings in your README file and have any functionality beyond the provided, explain the functionality and the button it is mapped to. Justify any alternative buttons in the README, but you must maintain the default mappings doing the default actions. For example, if you say that pressing left alt is jump, you must explain why in the README, and when pressing space, the ball must still jump. If you go for Extra Credit and use VR, you must use the VR controllers as input. There is no default layout—document yours with an explanation of why.

2. Levels. You need at least five different levels. Each should be harder than the one before it. You need a transition to progress to each level. At least the last level requires moving meshes (moving platforms or obstacles) to increase difficulty.

3. Winning and Losing. You need at least one way to win (reach the end of the last level, collect enough tokens, etc.) and lose the game, i.e., falling into the void enough times, though you may have additional methods. Once you lose all your lives, the game is over, and you need to restart from Level 1. You could optionally have a continue screen to start at the beginning of your level (e.g., Level 2). 

4. Collectables. The ball must be able to collect at least one type of interactable object though more are encouraged. (Also known as pick-ups)

5. Health. The player must have some sort of health scale. When your health status is zero, then you lose a life. You must have some method of losing health and can additionally implement a method to increase health. If you fall into the void, you lose your current life regardless of the amount of health you have.

6. Respawn. After losing the life, the player must be able to respawn (either where they died or a set respawn point) conditional on them being able to (have remaining lives). You may decide if they respawn at full health or some diminished amount.

7. Game Difficulty. You must implement dynamic game difficulty starting on the most accessible mode and increasing as you continue to progress. You must implement at least three difficulty states 0 (easy), 1 (medium), and 2 (hard). To increase the difficulty, you must add obstacles, damaging surfaces, additional walls, lasers, more collectibles required to reach the next level, etc. This must change depending on whether the player manages to reach the next level (so it starts harder) or dies and needs to redo this (lower the difficulty for the current level). You may additionally add the option to increase the difficulty from the start.

8. Progression. You must have a straightforward way to showcase your current progression and when you have completed the objectives.

9. Obstacles. If you create some obstacle like a bomb that moves the player, decide what to do. Some may want the ball not to be moved in such a way as to the progress to the next level, while others may choose something else.  

10. Scoring. Maintain a score across different levels. This can be one score like time, or you can have multiple such as collectibles retrieved, total damage taken, etc. The maximum score should be displayed at the start of level one or between levels to give players comparisons. The maximum score means a previous player with the highest score. 

11. Sound effects. Actions such as bomb detonations, the damage being taken, collecting items, and colliding with walls should play some sound. There should also be a background audio track.

You have room for creativity and to alter the design if they are well documented and comply with the essential requirements. 
